# twitter_polarization
CS 315 Final Project: Data and Text Mining for the Web

In this project, I examine how millennials are interacting on Twitter in the polarized political arena in the months leading up to the 2016 presidential election. I accomplish this by scraping the conversations of young, politically active journalists and visualizing their conversations using LDA topic modeling. Unfortunately, the conversations show few signs of political convergence and sentiment analyses reveal high levels of strong language among young people, based on sentiment analysis of their conversations.

Although I was personally responsible for investigating millennial engagement, in the group paper, the three of us examine three different aspects of political activity on Twitter: Trump, political bots, and millennial engagement. To examine Trump as a polarizing agent, we use LDA topic modeling, a classification tree to detect bots, k-means clustering, and multivariate linear regressions in our analysis. Tweet entities, specific topic, and personality were statistically significant in predicting user interaction with Trump tweets. Additionally, Trump followers roughly follow Republican demographics. Political bots can also act as a polarizing agent, and can be classified by the ratio of tweets per day to age, followers to friends, and identified by a software called botornot. Based on these factors, it becomes apparent that they follow specific political agendas. We conclude that genuine discourse among the millennial populations and otherwise are unfortunately unlikely in a medium such as Twitter, in which only short messages can be exchanged. Instead, our virtual democracy remains vulnerable to foreign and malevolent forces, and the digital literacy of Internet content consumers needs to be reinforced.
